doc: working_with_nrf: Add npm2100 pmic (#21129)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/pmic/npm2100.rst

.. _ug_npm2100_developing:
.. _ug_npm2100_gs:

Developing with the nPM2100 PMIC
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |NCS| provides support for development with the `nPM2100 Power Management IC (PMIC) <nPM2100 product website_>`_, using the `nPM2100 Evaluation Kit (PCA10170) <nPM2100 EK product page_>`_.

.. _ug_npm2100_features:

nPM2100 features
****************

nPM2100 is a PMIC designed for primary (non-rechargeable) batteries in an extremely compact form factor.
It has an ultra-efficient boost regulator, a dual purpose LDO/load switch, two GPIOs, an ADC, and other features.

nPM2100 is the perfect companion for nRF52, nRF53, and nRF54 Series SoCs.
It is ideal for compact and advanced IoT products that uses primary cell batteries.

For additional information on the nPM2100 PMIC and associated kits, see the `nPM2100 product website`_ technical documentation, especially the `nPM2100 EK product page`_.

.. _ug_npm2100_compatible_boards:

Boards compatible with nPM2100
******************************

> The following boards in the `Zephyr`_ open source project and in the |NCS| are supported in the :ref:`pmic_samples`. These boards represents a subset of the boards that are compatible with nPM2100.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following boards in the `Zephyr`_ open source project and in the |NCS| are supported in the :ref:`pmic_samples`.
These boards represent a subset of the boards that are compatible with nPM2100.
```

   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10156
     - | ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``
     - --
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf5340dk_nrf5340`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10095
     - ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp``
     - | `Product Specification <nRF5340 Product Specification_>`_
       | `Quick Start app`_
       | `User Guide <nRF5340 DK User Guide_>`_
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10056
     - ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840``
     - | `Product Specification <nRF52840 Product Specification_>`_
       | `Quick Start app`_
       | `User Guide <nRF52840 DK User Guide_>`_

PMIC samples and libraries
**************************

The |NCS| provides several :ref:`pmic_samples` that demonstrate the features and capabilities of nPM2100 using the nPM2100 EK.

The |NCS| also provides the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` that processes battery measurements made by PMICs and provides a state-of-charge (SOC) prediction, along with other metrics.
:ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` also includes battery models for a number of common primary cell battery types, such as Alkaline AA, AAA, LR44, and Lithium-manganese dioxide coin cell CR2032 batteries.

> These generic models can be used directly in your application to calculate the state of charge of the battery connected to the PMIC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these generic models directly in your application to calculate the state of charge of the battery connected to the PMIC.
```

See `Using the nPM2100 Fuel Gauge`_ for more information on how to use the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` in your application.

PMIC tools
**********

The :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` is supported by the `nPM PowerUP app`_ in `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
See `Connect and use the nPM2100 EK`_ section of the `nPM2100 EK product page`_ for more information.

.. _ug_npm2100_developing_overlay_import:

Importing an overlay from the nPM PowerUP app
=============================================

> The nPM PowerUP app from nRF Connect for Desktop supports exporting a full configuration of the nPM2100 in devicetree overlay format.
> You can use this exported overlay file to quickly configure the nPM2100 in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nPM PowerUP app from nRF Connect for Desktop supports exporting a full configuration of the nPM2100 EK in devicetree overlay format.
You can use this exported overlay file to quickly configure the nPM2100 EK in your application.
```

If there is no overlay file for your project, include the file directly in your application folder with the name :file:`app.overlay`.
If an overlay already exists, append the contents of the generated overlay to the existing file.
For more information about devicetree overlays, see :ref:`zephyr:use-dt-overlays`.

.. _npm2100_building:

Building and programming for nPM2100
************************************

> There is no firmware for nPM2100 that you can build and program onto the PMIC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no firmware for nPM2100 EK that you can build and program onto the PMIC.
```

> Instead, you need to connect the compatible development kit to the nPM2100 EK and program that kit with the firmware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, you need to connect a compatible development kit to the nPM2100 EK and program the DK with the firmware.
```

Connecting the development kit to nPM2100
=========================================

If you are using the nRF52840 DK, nRF5340 DK, or nRF54L15 DK, follow the steps in `Connect and use the nPM2100 EK`_ in the `nPM2100 EK product page`_.
For other Nordic Semiconductor kits, use the wiring steps in the documentation for :ref:`pmic_samples` as reference (:ref:`wiring for the Fuel gauge sample <npm2100_fuel_gauge_wiring>` and :ref:`wiring for the One button sample <npm2100_one_button_wiring>`, respectively).

If you are using custom hardware, the wiring process is similar to the `ones for the nRF5x DKs <Connect and use the nPM2100 EK_>`_, but board-specific steps will be different.

.. note::

>     Logic levels on the nPM2100 EK follow the nPM2100 boost regulator output voltage.
>     There is no voltage level translation on the nPM2100 EK headers.
>     To ensure proper communication between the nPM2100 EK and the development kit, the DK must be powered by the nPM2100 EK.
>     Appropriate wiring for supported DKs is provided in the :ref:`pmic_samples` documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Logic levels on the nPM2100 EK follow the nPM2100 boost regulator output voltage.
   There is no voltage level translation on the nPM2100 EK headers.
   To ensure proper communication between the nPM2100 EK and the development kit, the DK must be powered by the nPM2100 EK.
   Appropriate wiring for supported DKs is provided in the :ref:`pmic_samples` documentation.
```

Programming the development kit with nPM2100-compatible firmware
================================================================

> Follow the detailed instructions in the building and programming sections of the :ref:`pmic_samples` documentation to build the sample and flash it to the compatible DK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the detailed instructions in the building and programming sections of the :ref:`pmic_samples` documentation to build the sample and flash it to a compatible DK.
```

.. _ug_npm2100_developing:
.. _ug_npm2100_gs:

Developing with the nPM2100 PMIC
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |NCS| provides support for development with the `nPM2100 Power Management IC (PMIC) <nPM2100 product website_>`_, using the `nPM2100 Evaluation Kit (PCA10170) <nPM2100 EK product page_>`_.

.. _ug_npm2100_features:

nPM2100 features
****************

nPM2100 is a PMIC designed for primary (non-rechargeable) batteries in an extremely compact form factor.
It has an ultra-efficient boost regulator, a dual purpose LDO/load switch, two GPIOs, an ADC, and other features.

nPM2100 is the perfect companion for nRF52, nRF53, and nRF54 Series SoCs.

> It is ideal for compact and advanced IoT products that uses primary cell batteries.

Author: I don't know the grammar well enough to understand which is most correct. Products plural means it should be "uses"?

> It is ideal for compact and advanced IoT products that uses primary cell batteries.

Reviewer: products use - product uses

     - | ``nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp``
       | ``nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpurad``
       | ``nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuppr``
     - | `Objective Product Specification <nRF54H20 Objective Product Specification 0.3.1_>`_
       | :ref:`Getting started <ug_nrf54h20_gs>`
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10156
     - | ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``
     - --
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf5340dk_nrf5340`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10095
     - ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp``
     - | `Product Specification <nRF5340 Product Specification_>`_
       | `Quick Start app`_
       | `User Guide <nRF5340 DK User Guide_>`_
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10056
     - ``nrf52840dk/nrf52840``
     - | `Product Specification <nRF52840 Product Specification_>`_
       | `Quick Start app`_
       | `User Guide <nRF52840 DK User Guide_>`_
   * - :ref:`zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52832`
     - nPM2100 EK
     - PCA10040
     - ``nrf52dk/nrf52832``
     - | `Product Specification <nRF52832 Product Specification_>`_
       | `Quick Start app`_
       | `User Guide <nRF52 DK User Guide_>`_

PMIC samples and libraries
**************************

> The |NCS| provides several :ref:`pmic_samples` that demonstrate the features and capabilities of nPM2100 using the nPM2100 EK.

Reviewer: "Several" is a bit much to say as we only have two samples (Fuel gauge and One button). The same goes for the corresponding doc for nPM 1300.

Author: True, but we would like to add more samples

The |NCS| also provides the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` that processes battery measurements made by PMICs and provides a state-of-charge (SOC) prediction, along with other metrics.
:ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` also includes battery models for a number of common primary cell battery types, such as Alkaline AA, AAA, LR44, and Lithium-manganese dioxide coin cell CR2032 batteries.
These generic models can be used directly in your application to calculate the state of charge of the battery connected to the PMIC.

PMIC tools
**********

The :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` is supported by the `nPM PowerUP app`_ in `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
See `Evaluate nPM2100 using nPM PowerUP`_ in the `nPM2100 EK User Guide`_ for more information.

.. _ug_npm2100_developing_overlay_import:

Importing an overlay from the nPM PowerUP app
=============================================

The nPM PowerUP app from nRF Connect for Desktop supports exporting a full configuration of the nPM2100 in devicetree overlay format.
You can use this exported overlay file to quickly configure the nPM2100 in your application.

> If there is no overlay file for your project, include the file directly in your application folder with the name :file:`app.overlay`.
> 
> If an overlay already exists, append the contents of the generated overlay to the existing file.
> 
> For more information about devicetree overlays, see :ref:`zephyr:use-dt-overlays`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no overlay file for your project, include the file directly in your application folder with the name :file:`app.overlay`.
If an overlay already exists, append the contents of the generated overlay to the existing file.
For more information about devicetree overlays, see :ref:`zephyr:use-dt-overlays`.
```

.. _npm2100_building:

Building and programming for nPM2100
************************************

> There is no firmware for nPM2100 that can be built and programmed onto the PMIC.
> 
> Instead, you need to connect the compatible development kit to nPM2100 and program that kit with the firmware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no firmware for nPM2100 that you can build and program onto the PMIC.
Instead, you need to connect the compatible development kit to the nPM2100 EK and program that kit with the firmware.
```

Connecting the development kit to nPM2100
=========================================

If you are using the nRF5340 DK, follow the steps in `Use the nPM2100 EK with an nRF5340 DK`_ in the `nPM2100 EK User Guide`_.
For other Nordic Semiconductor kits, use the wiring steps in the documentation for :ref:`pmic_samples` as reference (:ref:`wiring for the Fuel gauge sample <npm2100_fuel_gauge_wiring>` and :ref:`wiring for the One button sample <npm2100_one_button_wiring>`, respectively).

If you are using custom hardware, the wiring process is similar to the `one for the nRF5340 DK <Use the nPM2100 EK with an nRF5340 DK_>`_, but board-specific steps will be different.

.. note::

>     Logic levels on the nPM2100 EK follow the nPM2100 boost regulator output voltage. There is no voltage level translation on the nPM2100 EK headers.
>     In order to ensure proper communication between the nPM2100 EK and the development kit, the development kit must be powered by the nPM2100 EK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Logic levels on the nPM2100 EK follow the nPM2100 boost regulator output voltage.
    There is no voltage level translation on the nPM2100 EK headers.
    To ensure proper communication between the nPM2100 EK and the development kit, the DK must be powered by the nPM2100 EK.
```
